During our first meeting, we began discussing what some barriers to entry in the Node.js community are, and what we would like the values of the Node.js community to be. These lists are intended to be starting points for discussions, not comprehensive, final listings.

## Barriers to Entry in Participating in the Node.js Community

- The community surrounding a given project can react in unwelcoming ways to newcomers
    - People are emotionally vulnerable when they first join a community. They may not know many of the contributors involved, or may be unfamiliar with the tone/formality of the community. Disagreements between existing members, especially if they appear hostile, can make newcomers doubt how welcoming and friendly the community is or claims to be.
- Vocalizing barriers to entry is treated with hostility and defensiveness
    - Being dismissive towards someone’s attempts to discuss their barriers to entry can be interpreted by the person bringing them up as "your problems aren't important, please stop talking about them, go away." This behavior often leads to self-censoring or leaving altogether.
- The community surrounding a given project doesn't always respect a person's agency of identity
    - A person should have the right to disclose what makes up their identity at their time and choosing, if they choose to bring it up at all. Being forced to talk about who they are when they don't want to is a very alienating and stressful experience.
- The community or project doesn't have a structure to handle conflict
    - Without an official structure to handle conflict, there is little confidence that it will be handled effectively, if at all. This may cause people, especially those from underrepresented groups, to reconsider joining out of fear.
- The cycle of dominance (e.g. competitive posturing on IRC) is harmful
    - A special case of the first barrier to entry, the cycle of dominance, is where members of a community express technical mastery over a topic with the intention of dominating other members of the community. This behavior often arises from the insecurity about one’s own lack of knowledge. The effects on newcomers are the same as the first barrier to entry.

### To be fleshed out as a group:

- Tokenization
- Language barriers

## Values

- Proactively seek inclusion, and self-educate about it
    - Inclusive communities don't happen on their own—they are the result of hard work of their existing members. We want everyone to learn about, and actively take steps towards, a culture of inclusion.
- Trust the "ouch"
    - When someone expresses feeling excluded or marginalized in the community, trust them. When experiencing these emotions, they will not perform to the best of their abilities, or worse, they will leave. Reasons or excuses for justifying the presence of these feelings are irrelevant, what matters most is acknowledging them and working towards a solution.
    - Responding to someone experiencing community pain should be carefully considered. When responding, take conscious steps to 1) listen, 2) think, 3) respond
- Respect others' ownership of information about their identities
    - Technical projects should be focused on technology, not on personal matters of those working on them
- Those at the center (i.e. those considered as community leaders) should set an example for how the entire community should act
- Perpetuating learning culture for sustainable project growth
    - Projects can only continue to exist and flourish if the community surrounding them grows.
    - Helping people learn also proves genuine care and inclusivity
- Realize that we have all been wrong; this is our shared vulnerability
    - No one likes to be wrong, and it's only natural to want to excuse, hide, or deflect when we are wrong
    - Not admitting when someone is wrong is counterproductive. It costs time arriving at the eventual correct solution, and encourages argumentation and hostility among members
    - People at the center owning and embracing when they are wrong demystifies the cult of celebrity and hero worship that can build up around them
- Demonstration of buy-in of these values from people at the center
    - People look up to those at the center for guidance and social cues on how to behave in a community. If their role models regularly demonstrate a commitment to these values, it creates ripple effect of buy-in throughout the community
- "I don't know" is often the best answer
    - We all encounter moments where we don't know something. Similar to realizing when we are wrong, admitting and embracing that instead of hiding/deflecting/etc., enables us to collectively figure out the answer sooner and build a more trusting community
- These values matter to us and we want to continue improving them
    - This document is intended to be the start of a conversation on values and inclusion, not the end of it

### To be fleshed out as a group:

- Community should be collaborative, not competitive (flagged for later elaboration/discussion of healthy competition)

## Notes from the preparer

- The basic approach I took was to refine the wording of each bullet point, and to then add an explanation of that point. I'm not sure this is the final structure we want, but I felt it is at least a good starting point for making sure everyone is on the same page
- I think the values should all be phrased as "we value and encourage this", as opposed to "we don't value and discourage this". Some of the current wording is of the latter variety though
- I intentionally made the wording rather verbose, so as to try and capture the full intent. My intention is that the next step would be to to simplify the wording, while still retaining the core meaning

## License

Copyright Node.js Inclusivity Contributors
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
